= Installing the Find It Nearby Application

The FindIt application has been tested with Ruby 1.9.1.

To run the application, you will need to install the following Ruby Gems:

* dbd-pg (tested with version 0.3.9)
* dbi (tested with version 0.4.5)
* pg (tested with version 0.13.2)
* sinatra (tested with version 1.3.2)

Under Linux, you can do this by running the command:

  $ sudo gem install dbd-pg dbi pg sinatra

You also will need need to install the PostgreSQL database and PostGIS extensions.

Once you have the above requirements complete, setup the database by:

* Create a PostgreSQL database user. Adjust the <tt>DBI.connect()</tt> statement in
  "lib/findit/app.rb" with the username and password credentials you used.

* Create a new, empty PostgreSQL database named "findit", owned by the user you
  created above.

* Load the database with the "findit.sql" file distributed with this package.

Here is an example session:

  $ sudo -u postgres psql
  psql (9.1.4)
  Type "help" for help.

  postgres=# create user findit with password 'XXXXXXXX';
  CREATE ROLE
  postgres=# create database findit with owner findit;
  CREATE DATABASE
  postgres=# \c findit
  You are now connected to database "findit" as user "postgres".
  findit=# \i findit.sql
  SET
  SET
    .
    .
    .
  ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES
  ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES
  findit=# \q
  $

Now you are ready to run the application:

  $ ruby bin/findit-svc
  2012-07-12 14:18:06] INFO  WEBrick 1.3.1
  [2012-07-12 14:18:06] INFO  ruby 1.9.2 (2011-07-09) [x86_64-linux]
  == Sinatra/1.3.2 has taken the stage on 4567 for development with backup from WEBrick
  [2012-07-12 14:18:06] INFO  WEBrick::HTTPServer#start: pid=3968 port=4567

Finally, if you browse to http://localhost:4567 the application should launch. It should
first try to locate your current position, and then it should draw a map showing your
position and surrounding features.

== Production Deployment

For production use, I serve the Find It Nearby application with the Apache HTTP
web server using Phusion Passenger (http://www.modrails.com/).

Here is the procedure to do that:

* Install the <i>passenger</i> Ruby gem (and its dependencies).

* Then run the "passenger-install-apache2-module" script that is distributed
  with the gem.
  
* Configure Apache for Passenger. Here is the server configuration I use:

    LoadModule passenger_module /var/lib/gems/1.9.1/gems/passenger-3.0.11/ext/apache2/mod_passenger.so
    PassengerRoot /var/lib/gems/1.9.1/gems/passenger-3.0.11
    PassengerRuby /usr/bin/ruby1.9.1
    
    # Passenger will be enabled in the .htaccess file of the application.
    PassengerEnabled off

* Finally, setup a virtual web server with <i>DocumentRoot</i> set to the "findit/public"
  directory.

Chip Rosenthal
chip@unicom.com
12 July 2012

