= VoteATX

VoteATX is a web application that locates best places to vote.

It was designed for Travis County elections.

You can view the application running at: http://voteatx.us/

The source code is published at: https://github.com/chip-rosenthal/voteatx

This package has been tested with Ruby vesions 1.9.3 and 2.0. It requires
Sqlite3 database with Spatialite extensions.

*Important:* For more information on setting up Spatialite on your system,
see: https://github.com/chip-rosenthal/findit-support#spatialite-support

Once the package is downloaded (and Spatialite has been installed), run:

    $ bundle install

For development, you can run the application from the command line:

    $ bin/voteatx-svc 
    Starting VoteATX::Service ...
    CONFIGURE: environment = development
    CONFIGURE: root = /home/chip/Workspace/voteatx
    CONFIGURE: public_folder = /home/chip/Workspace/voteatx/public
    CONFIGURE: database = /home/chip/Workspace/voteatx/voteatx.db
    [2013-10-19 16:24:20] INFO  WEBrick 1.3.1
    [2013-10-19 16:24:20] INFO  ruby 1.9.3 (2012-04-20) [x86_64-linux]
    == Sinatra/1.4.3 has taken the stage on 4567 for development with backup from WEBrick
    [2013-10-19 16:24:20] INFO  WEBrick::HTTPServer#start: pid=4838 port=4567

If you get an error such as:

    SQLite3::SQLException: libspatialite.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory (Sequel::DatabaseError)

that means your Spatialite library could not be located. You will need to
specify the Spatialite library location when you start up the service. Use
a command such as:

    $ SPATIALITE=/usr/lib64/libspatialite.so.5.1.0 bin/voteatx-svc 

Then, browse http://localhost:4567 to see the running application.

The application has been deployed using Phusion Passenger (mod_rails) under Apache.
The "config.ru" file is used in production.


== Porting and Update

The application is designed to be portable. The process to deploy at a new location -- or
update for a new election date -- should be:

* Generate a new database.
* Update the "public/about.html" page.

The README-data.rdoc file provides additional information on setting up the database.

Additional documentation can be produced by running: rake rdoc


== Feedback

Please report any problems or feedback through the issue tracker for this
project: https://github.com/chip-rosenthal/voteatx/issues

---
Chip Rosenthal <chip@unicom.com>
