= VoteATX Database Generation

== Data Sources

The database is generated from two sets of data:

=== Voting Places

The Travis County Clerk has provided a spreadsheet with three tables,
one each for the various voting place types (election day, early
fixed, early mobile). We manually convert them to individual CSV
files, and then use a loader utility to load the voting place table.

This information is in the "data/voting-places/_YYYYMMDD_" subdirectory,
where "_YYYYMMDD_" is the data of the election.

=== Voting Districts

This information is pretty stable, and changes only when redistricting occurs.

The Travis County Tax Acessor-Collector office has provided a geospatial
"shape" file that defines the boundaries of all the voting districts. We
use "spatialite_tool" to load the SHP file into the database.

This information is in the "data/voting-districts/_YYYY_" subdirectory,
where "YYYY" is the year in which the voting districts were drawn.


== How to Create the Database

This procedure works only for "voting-places" subdirectories that contain a
"generate.rb" script. (Version 20121106 and later)

* cd into the "data/voting-places/YYYYMMDD" directory.

* run: sh ../create_db.sh voteatx.db

* cd back to the top-level project directory

* run: ln -s data/voting-places/YYYYMMDD/voteatx.db


== How to Setup Database for a New Election

Here is the process I use to setup the data for a new election.

* Create a "data/voting-places/_YYYYMMDD_" directory. That's where all
  the files will be created and work will be stored.

* Contact the Travis County Clerk's Elections Division
  (elections@co.travis.tx.us) in advance of the election to get a copy of
  the voting places dataset.

* In the past, the dataset has been provided to me as an XLSX spreadsheet
  with three sheets, one for each voting place type.  Manually export each
  sheet to a CSV file.

* I've found I've had to do some data cleanup, so I recommend making a
  copy of each CSV (with ".csv.orig" filetype) for reference purposes.

* Copy the "generate.rb" script from the most recent election to this
  directory.

* Tailor the "generate.rb" script for this election. See the comments
  in the script for additional information.

* Run the "create_db.sh" script, as described above.

* Make corrections to the data ("CSV" files) as needed, and re-run the
  creation script.


== Overview of Database Tables

Here is an overview of the key tables in the _VoteATX_ database:

[voting_places]
  A voting place of any kind (early, mobile, election day) for this
  election. This is the table searched to find places to vote.

[voting_locations]
  A location where a voting place is.

  _voting_places.location_id_ is a foreign key into this table.

[voting_schedules]
  A schedule of hours for a voting place.

  _voting_places.schedule_id_ is a foreign key into this table.

[voting_schedule_entries]
  The line item details for a voting schedule.

  Each row is the open and close times for a single day in a schedule.
  The _schedule_id_ column is a foreign key into the _voting_schedules_
  table.

[voting_districts]
  Boundaries of all the voting precincts.

  This is made from a completely separate data source: the geospatial
  "shape" file of voting districts. This is used to locate the precinct
  number for a given location (longitude/latitude).

[election_defs]
  Defintions to customize results for this election are stored here.

  The app should not require changes when updating to a new election. The
  information that might change, such as the election description,
  is stored here.

Helpful Hint: The Firefox "SQLite Manager" plug-in is a great
tool for exploring SQLite databases. It works fine for Spatialite
databases, with the provision that _geometry_ columns should be
treated as opaque blobs, and there will be a number of additional
tables created by Spatialite for geospatial support.  More info here:
https://code.google.com/p/sqlite-manager/


== Problems and Feedback

If you encounter any difficulties or have any feedback, please use the
issue tracker: https://github.com/chip-rosenthal/voteatx/issues

---
Chip Rosenthal <chip@unicom.com>
